# tibetan-POS-tagger
RDRPOSTagger for Tibetan

tibetan-POS-tagger is a POS Tagger based on RDRPOSTagger(http://rdrpostagger.sourceforge.net/). It has been trained for Tibetan language by Tashi Kyi from ERTIM (Inalco) using a training corpus (http://larkpie.net/tibetancorpus/). The latter has been enhanced with proper noun lists, the duplicates have been removed and the missing tags have been added in order to get better results. The enhanced version of the corpus is available on GitHub.

In order to train RDRPOSTagger we need a text where each line is a sequence of WORD/TAG pairs.
See sample training and test sets in the data directory.

We trained RDRPOSTagger on goldTibTest.txt with the command : pSCRDRtagger$ python RDRPOSTagger.py train ../data/goldTibTest.txt
Here pSCRDRtagger$ is simply used to denote the current pSCRDRtagger source package. Note : the text should be already segmented.
A .DICT lexicon file and an .RDR trained model file will be generated in the same directory containing the gold standard training corpus.

To use the trained model for POS tagging on a raw unlabeled text corpus : pSCRDRtagger$ python RDRPOSTagger.py tag PATH-TO-TRAINED-MODEL PATH-TO-LEXICON PATH-TO-RAW-TEXT-CORPUS
Exemple : pSCRDRtagger$ python RDRPOSTagger.py tag ../data/goldTibTest.txt.RDR ../data/goldTibTest.txt.DICT ../data/rawTest
A .TAGGED file, in this case rawTest.TAGGED, will be generated in the same directory containing the raw text corpus.

Note :
The training text goldTibTest.txt is a syllable part-of-speech tagged corpus of Tibetan texts generated by Tibetan in Digital Communication research project (link : http://larkpie.net/tibetancorpus/ ).
Modifications made to the original vertical format text : 
1) with simple ctrl+F click, we transformed WORD  tag - sequence into WORD/TAG sequence.
2) deleted all the repetitions of the WORD/TAG sequences and arranging them in Tibetan alphabetical order with the command sort -u
3) completed the missing tags with simple tags like n for any kind of nouns except for proper nouns. 

For further information on RDRPOSTagger : http://rdrpostagger.sourceforge.net/



